PA/USATF LDR Committee Meeting Minutes for September 17, 2006
Submitted by Linda M. Hall
 
Members in attendance were:  Tyler Abbott (NB Excelsior, men's chair),
Susan Beck (Iguanas), Tony Coffey (Aggies), Linda M. Hall (Buffalo Chips,
secretary), Hollis Lenderking (BAUR, ultra chair), Heather MacFalls
(Unattached), Nick MacFalls (Unattached), Annamarie Murphy (Impala), Frank
Ruona (Tamalpa), Lloyd Stephenson (NB Excelsior, masters chair), Jeff
Teeters (Pacific Striders), Paul Tjogas (Spartans), Thom Trimble (Pacific
Striders), Tim Wason (NB Excelsior), Nelda Williams (Impala), Mark Winitz
(WVJS), Barb Wismer (West Valley Track Club).
 
The meeting was called to order on September 17, 2006 at 10:17 am in the
bleachers above the 100 m start line in Kezar Stadium following the Banana
Chase 5k.
 
APPROVAL of minutes from April 23, 2006 (following the Zippy 5k):  The
minutes were unanimously approved after several corrections and amendments
as follows.  The minutes were amended to show that Lloyd Stephenson did
not attend the 4/23/06 meeting. Under Rules Changes, the amendment by
Tyler Abbott was summarized in the minutes from the March 19, 2006
meeting.  Under New Business A, Prize Money:  The wording was corrected to
read: "Veterans (>70 years old) should be included in the distribution of
prize money."  
 
SUBCOMMITTEE REPORTS
 
Ultra:   A report was given summarizing several Ultra races.  Tamalpa
hosted a successful, sanctioned race at the Headlands 50k on August 26th
where the overall men's winner was from Colorado.  The women's winner from
Oregon set a course record.
 
Cross Country:  No report
 
Sponsorship/Fundraising:  No report
 
VOLUNTEERS:  
 
National Convention LDR representatives were nominated in a motion from
Tyler Abbott as follows:  Mark Winitz for men, Irene Herman for women, and
Lloyd Stephenson for masters.  This motion was seconded and approved
unanimously. 
 
Board of Athletics Positions:  There are three openings on the Board which
meets 5 nights a year on Wednesdays. There are three vacancies. This
group determines the overall directions and sometimes handles grievances.
They determine the budget for the grand prix series.  The meetings are
held in various locations including: Foster City, Sacramento, and Walnut
Creek. With the understanding that not everyone will be able to make every
meeting, the following were designated with unanimous approval to serve on
the Board:  Women's LDR:  Carey Craig, Julie Fingar, Linda Hall, and Irene
Herman; for Men's LDR: Tyler Abbott, Hollis Lenderking, Dan Preston, Tim
Wason, and Mark Winitz; and for masters LDR: Dave Ahn, Tony Coffey, Chuck
Desjardin, Don Porteus, and Lloyd Stephenson.
 
LDR BANQUET:  The West Valley Club has been asked to consider doing the
banquet.  They will put it on their agenda for the next Tuesday meeting.
 
RULES CHANGES
National rule, non-resident athletes {Winitz} There was an extensive
discussion on this complex topic with concerns expressed about athletes
being stripped of affiliations.  Because it is too late in the year for
these changes to be put in effect locally and because of the complexity of
the many issues involved, it was decided to table motions regarding this
issue and to make no changes for now.  It was suggested that mark Winitz
give this additional consideration to wording for a future meeting
(grandfathering issues and loss of eligibility were issues of particular
concern). 
 
NEW BUSINESS
 
2007 Road Grand Prix:  A total of 16 races were considered from a
tentative schedule list that was distributed at the time of the meeting.
Six races were unanimously approved as follows:
 
March 3 NorCal John Frank 10 mile in Redding for $2,500 prize and 1.0 point
March 18 Emerald Across the Bay 12 k in Sausalito-San Francisco for $2,500
prize and 1.0 point
April 29 Zippy 5 k in San Francisco for $2,500 prize and 1.0 point
May 28 Marin Memorial Day 10 k in Kentfield for $2,500 prize and 1.0 point
June 23 Shriners 8 k in Sacramento for $2,500 and 1.0 point
Sept 16 Banana Chase 5 k in San Francisco for $5,500 and 2.0 points
 
The following races were considered individually:
 
March 11 Fifty-Plus Paul Spangler 8 k This was submitted as a PA race for
all divisions, not just seniors.  Prize of $2,500 and 1 point were
suggested.  This race received a great deal of discussion.  Some felt it
had been poorly organized with inadequate signage, insufficient monitors
and poor timing facilities.  It ran on and off sidewalks and it was felt
the course was unsafe.   In the past it had been run better.  In defense
of this race, it was noted that some of the changes were due to
construction on the Stanford campus and only minimal technical
involvement. It was noted that the organizers are aware of the problems
from last year and that they intend to remedy the problems this year.  A
motion was made to approve this race with the submitted format (all PA
divisions), but that motioned failed with a vote of 4 in favor of the
race, 6 opposed to the race, and 2 abstaining. A new motion was made to
consider this as a seniors only race,  That motion also failed to pass
with a vote of 3 in favor of the race, 7 opposed, and 2 abstaining.
 
June 3/July 8  Davis or Stockton Mile  There was a suggestion that this
race might move to Stockton at the University of the Pacific where it
would be renamed as the Don Bowden Mile for Bowden being the first
American to break four minutes for the mile at UOP.  The date of June 3
was suggested because the anniversary of this record is June 1.  It was
unknown at the time of the discussion whether this was to be a permanent
move or just for year 2007.  This race was unanimously approved at either
location with the recommendation that it be held on the 3rd. [Note: the
race will be held 6/3 in Stockton.]
 
August TBD [11th] Susan B. Anthony 5 k for women only.   This race was
described as being very well-organized last year. It was unanimously
approved with the proviso that the bid be the same as last year and that
the bid be submitted in a timely fashion.
 
Sept 23 Running of the Bulls 8 k in Paso Robles for  $2,500 prize and 1.5
points.  This is the first bid for this race in which the organizers
propose to use a 3-person tethered bull team instead of the usual PA
teams.   It is unclear whether a tethered team race can be a PAUSATF
sanctioned event or a championship.  Also it would conflict with the
Heritage Oaks 10 k Masters Championship to be held also in Paso Robles on
the same day.  A motion was made to disapprove this race for 2007, but
consider it for the spring of 2008 if it can be sanctioned and a
championship.  The vote was 9 against this race for 2007, 0 for it and 1
abstention.  
 
Sept 23 Heritage Oaks Bank 10k/Masters National Championship with $2500
and one point plus $37,400 for the master championship.  Some members
objected to this race because of the requirement of many of the area
hotels for a two-night stay minimum.  This race was approved with a vote
of 8 in favor and 2 opposed.
 
Oct 21 Humboldt Half Marathon in Weott with $2,500 prize and 1.5 points.
This race is considered a very well run half with lots of competition.  It
was approved unanimously.
 
Nov 11 Clarksburg 30 k or Half Marathon with $2,700 prize and 2.0 points.
The 30k versus Half Marathon distances for this race were discussed.  The
half marathon would eliminate running on the banked levee.  However, the
30 k distance was preferred as a better tune up for CIM and also because
it is a unique distance in this series. A motion was made and seconded to
approve Clarksburg as a 30 k.  The vote was 6 in favor, 4 opposed and 1
abstention.  
 
Nov 22 Seagate Elite 5k Open (Thanksgiving) in San Jose  For 2007, this
race proposes to provide $5,000 prize money for open men and women only.
(Additional prize money would be available to all comers and top PA
runners meeting minimum standards would be offered hotel rooms.  The men's
and women's elite championship races would be separate.  Because of the
amount of PA prize money available to only the open age group, the
amendment was made to score this as a 2.0 point race.  It was pointed out
that this will give open women one more race than open men because of the
inclusion of Susan B for women only in the 2007 schedule.  This was not
considered a problem.  Seagate, as amended, was approved with a vote of 7
in favor, 2 opposed, and 2 abstentions.
 
Dec TBD [2nd] CIM  Sacramento.  The general discussion was that we want to
encourage a December marathon.  There was also discussion about CIM being
after the 2007 menâs Olympic trials. However, it would provide an
opportunity for women to qualify for their Olympic trials which are later
than the men's.  A motion was approved unanimously that if CIM submits a
bid for early December 2007 it will be accepted.  Because CIM does not
always make a bid, the suggestion was made that we should start looking
for an alternative marathon for future years.
 
Dec 9 or 16  Christmas Relays San Francisco $2,500 prize. A preference was
expressed for Dec 16th although either date would be accepted.  An
amendment was made that if a person runs on more than one team, s/he can
score only on one PA team.  The race as amended was approved unanimously
for either date.  Irene pointed out that team winners from previous years
are comp'd for this race regardless of who runs on the team the year after
the win.  
 
RULES CHANGES
 
1. Prize money for 2008.  Because it is too late to incorporate for 2007 a
motion was made and seconded and to incorporate into the bids increased
prize money to accommodate the older age groups for 2008.  The increased
prize money schedule is as described in the previous minutes with the
correction that the Veteran's age group be corrected to over 70.  This
motion was postponed to the next meeting.
 
Race Day  Memberships. There was some discussion about race day
memberships and the fact that there was little LDR presence at the first
cross country race, Empire. No motions were made.
 
Appeals
      Pacific Striders Masters Men @ Mile: Appeal was denied.
           Spartans @ Empire: Appeal was accepted.
           UCSC @ UCSC: Appeal was denied.
           Pacific Striders @ Empire: Appeal was denied.
 
The meeting was adjourned at 12:41 (noon).

