LDR Meeting Minutes, April 29, 2007, after the Zippy 5K

Near the start/finish area, Conservatory of Flowers, Golden Gate Park, San
Francisco 

Tyler Abbott, men's LDR chair, Tom Bernhard, road scorer, Tim Wason, New
Balance Excelsior; Don Porteous, cross country co-chair, Frank Ruona, Tom
O'Reilly, Tamalpa; Irene Herman, membership chair, Maria Briones, Impalas;
Cary Craig, cross country co-chair, Golden Valley Harriers; Tony Coffey,
Aggies.

Meeting called to order at 9:54.

Minutes from Across the Bay meeting, as distributed at the meeting,
unanimously approved. 

SUBCOMMITTEE REPORTS

No Ultra report.

Cross Country report. Cary Craig reported that Santa Cruz submitted a bid
for 9/1 (though preferring the previous week), so, by prior vote, they are
on the schedule. Shoreline and Tamalpa worked out their date conflict,
with Shoreline bidding for 10/13 and Tamalpa for 10/27. By unanimous
approval, the bids for these two races were approved. [The full schedule
should be up on the website very soon.]

No Sponsorship/Fundraising report.

VOLUNTEERS
      LDR Chairs: nominations closed with Tyler Abbott, men, and Lloyd
Stephenson, masters, being the only nominees. They are therefore elected
for another two year term. Women's LDR Chair will be vacant for the time
being.
      Board of Athletics positions. 
      Sanction Monitor. There was some discussion that 
LDR BANQUET
      It was suggested that, with a lot of recent growth in
Sacramento-area teams, it might make sense to hold the LDR Banquet there.
Irene Herman was asked to talk to Randy Sturgeon about it. New Balance
Excelsior is another option.

LDR BUDGET
      The committee unanimously approved the same request as last year for
the 2008 budget, to wit:
        Income
            Road GP @ $100/point race value $1,800
            Cross Country GP @ $100/race    $900
        Expense
            Road GP, travel funds $20,000, $1,000
            Cross Country GP, travel funds $8,000, $1,000
            Ultra GP, travel funds $3,000, $1,000
            LDR Banquet $1,000
            LDR Committee expense $100

RULES CHANGES
      The following single-point race prize money increase was approved by
an 8-1 vote, effective 2008:
        Individuals.    Open $250/135/50, Masters 135/55, Seniors 50,
Super Seniors 25, Veterans 25
        Teams.          Open $250/135/50, Masters 125/50, Seniors 65,
Super Seniors 35

2007 Road Grand Prix
      It was announced that CIM accepted the suggestion that it be a grand
prix championship for open women and masters (all 40+) only. This had been
approved by the committee at the last minute, pending confirmation from
the race.
      Tom Bernhard moved that Christmas Relays carry single point value
for all divisions. Background: the precedent is that it is double point
unless CIM is on the schedule, in which case it is single point. Because
open men do not race CIM this year, it should logically be double point
for them, single point for everyone else. However, this makes the scoring
quite a bit more complicated. The motion, to make Christmas Relays single
point for all divisions, was approved unanimously.

Presidio Penalty. Background: The LDR Executive Committee imposed a $250
penalty on the Presidio Open last fall due to course monitoring lapses. At
the last meeting, the Presidio race requested that it be allowed to pay
most if not all of this money to affected athletes, with the exact
breakdown to be approved by the Executive Committee. This was approved.
However, the Executive Committee did not approve the breakdown and in fact
questioned the wisdom of paying all the money to the athletes, as was the
request. A motion at the current meeting was made to pay half of the
penalty to the Officials Committee and the rest to athletes as follows:
Rosemarie Lagunas $50, Allison Kerr $25, Melissa Nestell $25, Julie
Bramlett $25. This motion was approved unanimously.
 
NEW BUSINESS

Tim Wason announced that he may be looking for volunteers to help with a
4K cross country race which may be held in 
conjunction with the International Children's Games (ages approx.
12.5-15.5) on 7/12-13/2008.

Lloyd Stephenson (present just at the end) announced that, due to a change
in his living circumstances, he would L to find someone else to house and
transport the USATF tent he carries and brings to races.

Lloyd Stephenson noted that the comp list posted on our website does not
give instruction as to how to enter a complimentary entry. Tom Bernhard
offered to post that information on the proper page online.

Meeting adjourned 10:33.

Submitted by Tyler Abbott, Acting Secretary

